<a class="apilink" href="categoryapi.html">Categories</a>
<a class="apilink" href="itemapi.html">Items</a>
<a class="apilink" href="planitemapi.html">Planitems</a>
<a class="apilink" href="statisticsapi.html">Statistics</a>

# FinAlyst WebService API

Besides the FinAlyst web based graphical user interface the webservice API
can be used to communicate with FinAlyst server.
The webservice API can be accesses similarly to the web gui, however it is
designed to be used by external applications. All the functions are available
on the webservice API.

Webserice API is only available after authentication. Applications have to send
a login message first. After the application finished working on the remote
server it should close the session by sending a logout message.

## Basic query format

The web service interface implements many queries and also operations that
change the server state. As FinAlyst access needs authentication, all the
requests have to pass the sessionid (returned by the login request), as a GET,
or POST argument. Passing the sessionid as a cookie is also accepted.
The sessionid is a string generated by the server on login.

All the queries and operations returns similar JSON data with the results.

Basic JSON request result format:

|| **Key**      || **Type**     || **Description**              ||
|| success      || bool         || Was the request success      ||
|| status       || integer      || HTTP Status Code             ||
|| data         || mixed        || empty or request result      ||

Login message has an additional sessionid argument.
Queries are implemented as HTTP GET requests, Operations are implemented as
HTTP POST requests.
